hi this is presto occur can you figure
out this problem which is driving people
crazy your job is to put numbers in each
of the four boxes to make all of the
equations true give it a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution this problem is actually a
system of linear equations we're
actually going to manipulate the
equations and prove there is no possible
solution for this problem the first
horizontal equation says that blue - red
is equal to 9 the second vertical
equation says red plus green is equal to
2 we can add up these two equations to
conclude that blue plus green is equal
to 11 we can then look at the first
vertical equation to say blue + yellow
is equal to 12 and we can look at the
second horizontal equation to get
negative yellow plus green is equal to
negative 14 I've multiplied the second
equation by negative 1 this is so that
we can cancel out the yellow variable
and then we get the result blue plus
green is equal to negative 2 now if you
focus on the two results we have we have
something that's contradictory in one
case we have blue + green is equal to 11
in another equation we found blue +
green is equal to negative 2 it's not
possible for these both to be true at
the same time therefore we've reached a
contradiction and therefore this is
impossible and there is no solution to
this equation - the system of equations
now you might ask yourself is it just
because we had the numbers 9 14 12 and 2
is it possible that this system of
equations could have another solution if
we put different numbers so if the first
equation was equal to b1 if the second
horizontal equation was b2 if the first
vertical equation was b3 and if the
second vertical equation was before is
it possible could we actually figure out
a solution this is a type of problem
that you would deal with in linear
algebra the result would be a vector of
four variables B 1 B 2 B 3 and B 4 and
these are constants which are known
this is going to be the result of four
equations four variables which is blue
red yellow and green
we can represent the system of equations
by a linear operator which we can write
as the following matrix if we multiply
the matrix by the vector of variables we
end up with the results so the first
line of the matrix says blue - red is
equal to b1 the second line of the
matrix says yellow - green is equal to B
to the third line says blue + yellow is
equal to b3 and the fourth line says red
+ green is equal to b4 and that
represents the four equations that we
have on the left hand side now we can
solve this system of equations if we
invert the matrix will then get a unique
solution by multiplying the vector of B
1 to B 4 by the inverted matrix however
you can only invert a matrix if its
determinant is not 0 this matrix has a
determinant that's equal to 0 so we
cannot find a unique solution for these
4 variables because the matrix has to
determine equal to 0
there are two possible things that can
happen one is you might have no
solutions which is what we had in this
video another thing you could have is
you might have the system of equations
that's under specified you would have
infinitely many solutions if you had the
equations X plus y equals 2 and 2x plus
y equals 4 you can see that the second
equation is 2 times the first equation
you don't get any new information and
therefore it's like putting a line right
on top of itself there are infinitely
many solutions so no matter how you try
and solve this system of equations
you're either going to end up with no
solutions or infinitely many solutions
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch her on my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Walker if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description